>> Kyle Simpson: So let's dive in.
Values.
Here's an example of a variety of
values that you can express, again,
in a Javascript program.
Line one, you see just the number 42.
Line two, you see 3.14.
Now, there might be a temptation to think
that those are different kinds of values
because one of them has some decimals
on it and one of them doesn't.
In the JavaScript language
specifically between
numbers that have decimal places
after them and numbers that don't.
So 42 and 3.14,
those are both just numbers.
Some languages will distinguish, and
they'll say something with a certain
number of decimal places is
a particular kind of number.
But here we're just gonna
talk about numbers.
There in line 4 you see,
those double quotes that are around it.
And by the way you could use
double quotes or single quote.
So you'll see a variety of different
styles of coding as you explore.
I just choose to use double
quotes to illustrate.
This is what we call a string.
A string is a collection of characters
that make up something that we can,
in English, can actually pronounce,
we can say out loud.
It's sort of a word or a sentence,
a set of characters that go together.
And so we're basically saying this is how
I can put together something that I might
print out a message to the screen,
or write some information to a file.
That's why we use a string.
Now you notice on line 6 and 7,
we have values like true and false.
Those two values go together in a sort of
kind or a class of value called Boolean.
Boolean is actually the name of a famous
mathematician from hundreds of years ago,
George Boolean.
But we get this idea of true and false and
you may of heard that computers work
in a bit wise with zeros and ones.
There's a same concept here
that there is an either one or
the other can't be anything
other than those two values.
So, if you have Boolean,
it's either true or false.
And then you notice null and
undefined, those two values.
Those are two different kinds
of what we call empty values.
Now, empty value is a little bit strange,
like what does it mean for
there to not be any value?
Or the sort of a placeholder for
some missing value, but
it's an really important
concept in programming.
And each programming language has their
sort of own flavor of what it means to
have emptiness.
Either something that has
never been given a value or
something that used to have a value and
it doesn't anymore.
There's sort of an emptiness.
It's a little bit of a strange historic
fact why JavaScript has two of them.
It might seem like we only need one,
like either undefined or
null but there's some historical reasons
why we end up with two of these.
My general recommendation is for
you to try to do your programming
in such a way that makes those
sort of indistinguishable.
Don't really try to get too wrapped
up in I need a null here but
I need an undefined here.
There are a couple of places that you
may run into where the distinction is
important.
But for the most part null and undefined,
they're just kinda two
different ways of saying.
This thing is empty,
there is no other value here, so
we're just denoting the fact that
there's a kind of emptiness to it.
Now lines 12 and
13 get a little bit more interesting.
Because on line 12 and 13 we would move
out of what we call primitive values,
like we've seen thus far,
into these non primitive values.
And all we mean by primitive is that it
is like literally written as an actual
value is rather than
a collection of values.
So you notice on line 12,
that's what we call an array.
An array is basically just
an ordered set of lists.
I have a favorite little
anecdote about this.
My son, when he was like two or three
years old, I got one of these books and
it was called A is for array.
It's a great little kids book
to teach kids about programming.
And it uses the alphabet or
signs of different programming term
to each letter of the alphabet.
And I remember we got as for
array, the very first letter and
I was trying to help him
understand this concept.
They do a good job in the book.
What i was trying to help him
understand the concept, and
what we did was just line up
some blocks on the ground.
And I was teaching him this
whole idea about arrays.
And arrays are what we call zero index,
meaning the first thing in the array is
actually at position zero rather than
maybe what we might
assume is position one.
There's a long historical reason
why that's true in computers.
But I was trying to help him understand
this idea of zero indexed into an array.
And so we lined up several of his
blocks and I remember playing with him.
And I'd say all right, now pick up block
zero, and he would pick up the first one.
Then I'd say pick up block one and
he'd pick up the one right next to it.
So that's basically what an array is just
an ordered collection of these values.
And they have these kind of numeric
association because of where they are,
where is their position.
That's how we go and get something.
So if I wanted to get
the value 3 out of the array,
I would basically need to get the value
at position 2 rather than at position 3.
And those values,
of course, can be anything.
I've got numbers here but they could be
any of those other values like numbers,
strings, booleans.
In fact, they could be even other arrays.
Or they could be objects
like we see on line 13.
Now line 13,
it's a little bit different than an array.
It's also a collection of values.
It's not a primitive single value but
a collection of values.
But it's a different kind of collection
because rather than the values being
in positions that are like numbers,
like position zero or position one.
These values are at positions
that are given names.
Almost like you have an address at home,
and that's a specific location within
your neighborhood and within your city.
The mailman knows exactly where to go
to deliver the packages or the mail.
A key is what it's called, instead of
an object, otherwise known as a property.
It's a specific named vocation,
and we use a string.
So you notice here, I have name.
That's the literal key name or
property name for
this particular position in an object.
And I could have either surrounded that
property or that key with a string,
with the double quotes, or
not surrounded it, as I did here.
Most of the time, you don't surround it
with quotes, but every once in a while,
you need to.
And then on the other side of that colon,
that's where we have a value.
And here I chose to put the value Kyle but
of course,
it could have been any other value like a
number or another array or another object.
So these are the kind of basic building
blocks in any sort of programming
language.
You have values.
You need to do things with those values.
And we'll get into that
in just a little bit.
But you have to first understand how to
represent some concept that you have in
your head.
If you're doing something that
is mathematically related,
like maybe adding up the amount of
money to charge somebody for an order.
Of course you need
values that are numbers.
And if you have a message that
you wanna print to the screen,
of course you're gonna have strings
that you're gonna be manipulating or
working with.
Or adding together or
moving around or things like that.
So these values represent tasks
that we want to accomplish.
And that have sort of intrinsic
behaviors associated with them.
You can do math with a number,
you can't really do math with a string.
That doesn't make sense, but
there are operations that you do
with a string that don't really
make sense for a number.